### 



I went for a walk while listening to Dave Chapelle on JRE. They were talking about fame, and the Americanization of the world, and it stuck with me. I know more about American culture than Indian culture. All the media I consume is produced by and intended for Americans. I usually get most cultural references, one that comes to mind is the stupid jokes on Flagrant 2. Am I losing touch with my Indian culture? Is that really a bad thing?

What if the world had a homogeneous singular culture? The lack of diversity wouldn't be ideal, but in an increasingly ever-connected world where a certain group (America) end up being the source of most information production: Internet, movies, music, books, etc., this is slowing gonna happen. One gigantic barrier that stands in the way is language. I'm always shocked by how little English is used in certain parts of the worlds. South Korea, for instance, was little-to-no English usage, also Japan.

But India being a colony of British and having relatively easy access and important need, is a prime target for percolation of American/Western culture. I think this further adds to the class divide within the coutry. The rich skew towards Americanization, while the poor remain with their traditional roots. I'm characterizing rich and poor, since I think economic status strongly directs both: a) the type of media consumed, b) primary language of choice. What happens as this divide widens? The Americanized denizens literally head to America (read: brain drain).

But is it really important to retain one's birth culture, or can it be treated like a birth language? I'm not singificantly disadvantaged at not knowing Telugu and Kannada as well as I know English, the inverse would've been disadvantagoes.

All in all, culture is weird. I really liked that Sam Harris episode talking about tight and lose cultures. I also wonder how good social dynamics simulations are. Things I should check out.
