---
layout: post
title: "A brief history of my computers"
author: "Dheeraj R Reddy"
categories: journal
tags: [pc]
---

I recently spent an entire month's paycheck on a new PC. Before jumping into
it, I wanted to revisit my PC history from the beginning.

The primary use cases for all my PCs have remained consistent over the years:
gaming and coding.

---

### Prologue: Xerox Shop PCs

My family didn't have a personal computer until I was in fourth grade (2007).
Before that, my (much older) cousins owned an internet café, or as per
Indian colloquialism, a "Xerox shop". They owned several computers with CRT
monitors. I have no idea what the specs of the machines were. ~~I've asked said
cousins, let's hope they remember.~~ My cousin came through big time, as far as
she can remember it was:
1. Intel Pentium 486
2. 32 or 64MB RAM
3. 32 or 64GB HDD
4. Windows 95/98

The only memories I have is of playing [Road Rash](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Road_Rash)
and [Prince of Persia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prince_of_Persia_(1989_video_game)),
or more accurately I would try to play, fail and then my cousins would take
over and finish the level for me.

---

### I: Noise Box

In 2007, my parents finally bought our family's first PC. Instead of opting
for a standard OEM computer, they bought an assembled PC to save a few precious
rupees. The specs of the computer:
1. Intel Core 2 Duo E4500
2. 1GB DDR2 667 Mhz RAM
3. 160GB HDD
4. Nvidia GeForce GT210 (later addition)
5. (Pirated[^no-piracy]) Windows XP.

Although I strongly advocated for buying a GPU, my parents did not heed the
words of a 9 year old child. Smh. They would reverse this decision in a couple
of years.

The cabinet was a janky, broken piece of shit. The most memorable thing about
the PC was just how noisy the fans were. And that the windows partition would
become full and then not boot, requiring a fresh install of Windows.

Despite it's flaws, this was the PC that got me into both gaming and coding.

On the gaming front, GTA: Vice City[^vc-audio], GTA: San Andreas, NFS
Underground 2, NFS Most Wanted were the defining titles. I also seriously
got into online gaming: every variant of Adventure Quest, RuneScape and
World of Warcraft. I've probably spent over a thousand hours playing those
games. In 2009, I bought GTA 4 for all my saved my birthday money without
understanding the concept of "Minimum Specifications". I was quickly heart
broken to realize my jank-ass PC wasn't going to run GTA 4[^rs] without a
GPU. For nearly a year, GTA 4 remained on a shelf unplayed until my parents
agreed to buy me a GPU: Nvidia GeForce 210. This unlocked a whole new axis
for me. I quickly discovered that the human eye can see beyond 20fps. Due to
the terrible cabinet and lack of proper airflow, the GPU did not last long, it
died in a couple of years and I went back to 20fps gaming.

I also learnt how to code in Java on this PC. Not much else to say, I wrote
shitty programs, but it was my first foray into programming.

I still own all components of the Noise Box. The monitor is used in vertical
orientation, the harddisk is used in my newer PCs and contains my offline music
and movie library, [the processor](https://imgur.com/a/Ym9hZao) stands on my
make shift monitor stand with the future plan of having it cleaned and framed.
The remaining parts are stored in some attic collecting dust.

On a final note, I bought the Logitech Cordless Rumblepad 2 to play FIFA, and
it works flawlessly to this day. I love Logitech and highly recommend it.

[^no-piracy]: I do not condone piracy now.
[^vc-audio]: Our version of Vice City didn't have audio, so I played the entire game without any sounds whatsoever.
[^rs]: Not to forget the horror that is Rockstar Social Club

---

### II: PCMR

2012 was the year I discovered reddit, and I quickly joined my favorite
circlejerk community: PC Master Race. This lead me to a rabbit hole of figuring
out PC hardware including LinusTechTips. For fun, I would spec out PCs on
Flipkart at different price points with no intention of buying the PC.

In 2014, right after I finished my 10th grade board exams, I finally ascended.
I bought my new gaming PC:
1. Intel i5 4440
2. 8GB DDR3 1600 Mhz RAM
3. 1TB HDD
4. AMD R9 270X
5. (Pirated[^no-piracy]) Windows 8.1
6. Ubuntu 14.04, Arch

I played **a lot** on games on this PC. Too many for me to even list them all,
the memorable ones are Witcher 3, GTA 5, Bioshock Infinite, Skyrim. But the
most important game of all: Battlefield 3. My friends and I played several
hundred hours of BF3 over two years while chatting on Skype. We would all sneak
onto our computers during school nights after our curfew times to play BF3 till
early hours the following day. They went from people I barely knew to them
becoming my best friends. Shoutout to Rakesh, Gokul and Rishav.

This was also my first \*NIX machine, and the machine on which I learnt to
*properly* write code. I continued writing larger Java projects and dipped
my feet into C and Python as well. I also discovered the use of a terminal
and an IDE, instead of running programs using [BlueJ](https://www.bluej.org/)
[^icse].

The PC also survived multiple road trips to and from college, I used it for
more compute heavy work and gaming during college along side the *Super
Trooper*. It went through some drastic changes: I uninstalled Windows and
switched to Arch Linux. The GPU was pretty useless for me since I was into
deep learning, but almost all frameworks (TensorFlow, Pytorch) only support
hardware acceleration via CUDA/CuDNN on Nvidia GPUs. It's nice to see this
change recently with ROCm.

Ultimately the PSU gave out, and I realized I needed a new PC with a better
CPU and an Nvidia GPU. I've tested it and all the components work as expected.
I'm trying to sell the machine, so if you or anyone you know is interested in
buying, please contact me.

My only regret is that it didn't have an SSD. IMO, HDD->SSD is the single most
evident change in the everyday use of a computer.

It lasted a solid 5 years.

[^icse]: Shoutout to the ICSE peeps.

---

### III: Super Trooper

2016 was the year I started university, working towards a degree in Computer
Science. I was making my inclination to computers official. As part of my
university's (exorbitant) fees, they would give us a new laptop. Why not let
the student bring their own laptops to university? I don't know. But in the
end folks with their own laptops pawned the laptop given to us. I did not
have a laptop at the time, so I had to make do with what was given to me.

I'll start by saying that I absolutely love this machine, if you couldn't
piece that together from this section's name. The specs:
1. ~~Some i5~~ Intel i5-6200U [^vishnu]
2. 4+4GB DDR4 RAM [^vishnu-ram]
3. 120GB SSD + 500GB HDD
4. Ubuntu MATE {16, 18, 20}.04

I love it not for the specs, but for the sentimental value it holds. This was
my gateway for all my coding, learning, entertainment for close to 3.5 years.
It never once gave up on me, even after I treated it like absolute shit,
dropping it multiple times from a height of ~3 feet. There was that one time I
spilled beer on the keyboard. That's not to say that it doesn't have a few
battle scars. The outer plastic shell is faded and cracked, the battery case is
broken and my spacebar has no tactile response anymore, after I had to remove
all the keycaps to clean the beer.

The top lid is entirely covered with stickers from various events, teams,
clubs I was part of. Each sticker represents a very distinct memory, but
the [Project MANAS](http://projectmanas.in/) sticker is undoubtedly the most
important.

If you wanna see the code that was produced on this machine, check my GitHub.
Most of my projects and OSS contributions were written on this. This includes
all the robotics work I did as part of MANAS.

It was also a capable gaming machine. I played a ton of World of Warcraft 3
using Wine on Ubuntu.

The laptop is still going strong. The battery life has definitely taken a hit
but I still get ~5 hours of screen-time. It's unfortunate that I don't use it
anymore since I've moved on to better devices, but I doubt I'll ever get rid
of it, solely due to the collage of stickers on it, and the memories they
represent.

[^vishnu]: Found the exact model thanks to my friend, [Vishnu Dasu](https://github.com/vdasu).
[^vishnu-ram]: Second shoutout to Vishnu for selling me his extra stick of RAM at a great price, when he upgraded.

---

### Interlude: The Middle Child

During my college I technically did have a laptop of my own. It was my sister's
hand-me-down laptop. It was not the greatest, but it was useful for the
rare moments I needed a spare laptop. It was a bulky, slow machine that
wouldn't last more than an hour on battery. Eventually the battery gave out
entirely, and now needs to be plugged in. Last I checked, which was nearly six
months back, it still works. It also lies on my table alongside the _Super
Trooper_ collecting dust.

---

### IV: The Other Side

Up until this point, all my computers were either Windows or some Linux distro,
but there's another OS that I hadn't used so far: macOS. Prior to using a Mac
I thought anyone willing to spend twice as much for the same hardware was a
sucker that was clout chasing. Boy was I wrong.

Specs:
1. Intel Core i7
2. 16GB DDR4 2400MHz Mhz RAM
3. 512GB SSD
4. Radeon Pro 555X

I got my hands on a 15" MacBook Pro at the start of my internship as my
professional dev machine. I recently finished my internship, and I can
wholeheartly say that I really like the MacBook Pro. So much so that the next
laptop I buy for myself will probably be a MacBook as well.

The display, [touchbar](https://pock.dev/), trackpad, battery and build quality
quickly won me over. I still have gripes with the keyboard and the heating
issues, but both are non-issues since I mostly use it on a table hooked up to
an external keyboard.

At the end of the day, it ended up being a glorified machine to check emails,
use slack and review code, since all the development was done on a remote dev
box that I would SSH into.

> #### Quick Sidebar: Overkill
> The devbox that I was given was a ridiculously powerful machine. It runs
> 2x24-core Intel Xeons with 64GB RAM. The only time I've seen it utilized
> properly is during code compiles, which it blazes through. Safe to say that
> the MacBook never did any heavy lifting.

Moving to macOS was much easier than I expected. Having a familiar terminal
environment helped. Any tool I was using on Linux was readily available, and at
times easier to install thanks to `brew`. The rest of macOS is also pretty
decent, nothing to write home about. I used the default apps for things like
PDF, images, etc. and I have no complaints. It never lagged and the boot times
are great. I do like being able to authenticate using frintprint. It took a
good month to properly get the grasp of the keyboard shortcuts though, and
still stumble as soon as I switch between machines.

Although macOS is POSIX compliant, there are a still issue with the exact
version they comply with. I faced an issue with a POSIX compliant software
used some `pthread` functionality that macOS didn't support[^sus], specifically
[`PTHREAD_ROBUST_MUTEX`](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man3/pthread_mutexattr_setrobust.3.html)[^catalina].

I obviously didn't use the laptop to game, except the occasional match of
[Settlers of Catan](https://colonist.io/).


[^catalina]: Not sure if that has been changed in Catalina. I checked on Mojave.
[^sus]: [SUSv2 vs SUSv7](https://stackoverflow.com/a/24947106/2240521)

---

### V: Headliner

This is PC that resulted in this blog. After my PCMR machine died, I didn't
have anything to game on, and I got tried of using Colab for running
experiments, so I decided to bite the bullet and build a new PC.

Specs:
1. AMD Ryzen 3700X (first AMD chip)
2. 16GB DDR4 3600 Mhz RAM
3. 1TB SSD + 1TB HDD
4. Nvidia RTX 2070 Super
5. Windows 10[^win], Ubuntu MATE 20.04

I also got my hands of a couple of monitors: Dell P2717H, Dell S2240L. Decent
monitors, not as good as the MacBook's display. I have my eyes set on buying
an ultra-wide monitor soon. Maybe hop onto the VR bandwagon as well.

It's doing pretty good so far. Haven't done much programming on it, since
I've been busy with some university work and working full-time. It's a beast
on the gaming front, plays everything I own at ultra. I did also buy a ton of
new titles in the recent Steam sale which I'm excited to try.

Any smaller updates on the PC will be posted on [my feed](https://squadrick.dev/menu/feed.html).

[^win]: I paid for a license this time.

---

### Epilogue

I want to acknowledge my Logitech G400s mouse which has been the only mouse
I've used for the last 7 years. It's still going strong.

---
